---
title: "End of semester learning report"
date: 2020-12-01T00:00:00-04:00
draft: false
---

I can identify and define key concepts in (web) content managment.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
This semester,**I learned a lot about the different concepts of content management systems. For example, what is content, how we can create contents, how we publish content using different content management systems, how to change themes for better presentations of content in the content management systems.** For this class, we have used mainly two content management systems, they are Hugo and WordPress. **I learned how to change themes and how to create posts on both of these. Next, I learned about how a front-end content strategist works with overall planning of the target audience content while the back-end strategist mainly works with different technologies involved in the content management systems.** Moreover, *I learned about the workflows and its important to complete the group project in a timely manner. Since I am working as an editor for my group, I learned how to write effective content and how to reduce grammatical errors and typos in the content. I learned content can be in one stage for some time in the workflows before it moves to the next stage. Once the content is moved to all stages, the workflows will end.* In general,**we have site planners, editors, developers, administrators, stakeholders in any kind of workflow. I learned how each of these people work in a group to complete the project.** Further,**I learned about the content modeling, content aggregations, and how we can add plug-ins and extensions to content management systems to add more functionalities. Moreover, I learned about how content creators make money by using different money making strategies such as through advertising, affiliated links, sponsors, selling content related products, and restricting the content to access without paying etc. Next, I have learned how to give effective peer feedback by using three steps methods that we have learned in the class such as setting the standard, describing the situations and providing the next steps to create better contents.**

I can describe and compare content management systems.
------------------------------------------------------
From this class, **I learned that we have different content management systems available and we can use specific content management systems based on our specific needs and abilities to use that content management systems. While talking about the different content management systems, we learned that one content management system can be more suitable for specific needs than the other content management systems.** In addition, some content management systems require more knowledge about code and coding to use multiple features of it. This semester, we used Hugo site and WordPress as two content management systems, and learned about different features that each content management systems provide. Based on the experience, **I can say that publishing the post is easy on both systems while I think we can do more stuff in WordPress sites by using different plug-ins/ extensions. I think WordPress is more suitable for businesses to publish content for marketing and Hugo is more suitable for personal blogging.** As we *learned in the class that we can use the same content management systems for multiple purposes but we need to make sure that which content management systems can be more suitable than the others.* Moreover, I think **I can change themes more easily in WordPress than in Hugo. I learned more people and businesses have used the WordPress than Hugo to publish their websites or content. I believe WordPress offers more functions and plugins than Hugo does. I do think that using a media source in WordPress is as easy as in Hugo. We can use markups elements easily on both content management systems. I think content modeling in WordPress is better than content modeling in Hugo.**

I can manage content using established workflows.
-------------------------------------------------
*I learned about the workflows and why it is important in order to complete the project in timely manner. I learned that we normally have site planner, editor, developer, administrator, and stakeholder in a workflow. We may have additional editors, developers and administrators depending upon the need and requirements.* **Out of many editors, developers, and administrators work closely in order to publish the content.Working as a editor for my group, I learned that editor write the main content and editor must be careful about typos, grammatical errors and punctuations errors to create the quality content.** Next, *developers work to present the content effectively in the content management systems by using different markups elements, and by using different media sources such as images, audio files, and video files. Developers do write necessary code to present the content effectively, so they work for better presentation of content by using different plugins and different themes.* Further, **administrator mainly works to complete the overall report and to works for making updates to each person in the workflows. During this semester, I did write several blog posts for WordPress site and I did write everything for the annotated definition project. Moreover, I did publish learning reports for each module throughout the semester in Hugo sites. Working as a editor, I found that effective communication is a must to complete the projects on time and effectively. If anyone in the workflows did not contribute and take more time than need, it will ruin the overall workflow.** 


I can identify and employ technologies related to content management.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
As we are using two different content management systems in this class such as Hugo and WordPress in order to complete our assignments for the class, **I can easily create post, edit post, change themes for better presentations of content in both of these two content management systems. In addition, I learned about how to use markups elements, images, audio files, and video files while creating posts for these content management systems.** During the semester, I learned about how we can add  multiple plug-ins and extensions in Hugo and in WordPress for more functionalities of those content management systems. I got to know about the basics of HTML tags, CSS codes that we can use in different content management systems. Since we have used Microsoft Teams for communicating purposes in the workflow, I can use it as I need while working in a workflow. Further, **I learned how we can use content modeling and content aggregation in order to manage the content more effectively in both content management systems.** 


I can find and use resources for self-directed learning.
--------------------------------------------------------
Even though we have learned different concepts about how to create posts, edit posts and use different media sources in different content management systems,**we cannot master these skills unless we practice, so I did practice these skills both in Hugo sites and in WordPress sites.** During applying these skills,**I needed to go through the class readings in order to get the concepts first.** *I did use other resources such as websites related to content and skills, related YouTube videos to learn about these skills.* **In addition, whenever I got stuck in anything, I did ask with professors and other friends who have ideas about these things. Overall, I did get help from different resource related websites and YouTube videos to learn about the different skills that were necessary for the class while using Hugo sites and WordPress sites.**




